TREC QA Data
============

The now-discontinued QA track of the NIST TREC conference provides
the de-facto standard benchmark data for QA systems:

	http://trec.nist.gov/data/qa.html

This directory contains some download and format conversion scripts
(run ``trec-setup.sh`` to download TREC datasets for several years
and produce some easy-to-process TSV files) and also the reference
(mostly) TREC-based datasets:

  * ``treclarge-raw.tsv`` contains ID, type, question and answer PCRE
    for the "large" dataset of questions coming from TREC 8, 9, 10, 11
    and 12 (years 1999-2003), when the QA track was about isolated,
    general factoid questions.  Do not edit questions in this file,
    it is autogenerated.

  * ``trecnew-raw.tsv`` contains ID, type, question and answer PCRE
    for the "new" dataset of questions coming from TREC 11 and 12
    (years 2002, 2003), which appear to be the most mature and
    corpus-agnostic sets.  (Also used e.g. in Chu-Carroll, Fan:
    "Leveraging Wikipedia Characteristics...")  Do not edit questions
    in this file, it is autogenerated.

  * ``trecnew-raw-comments.txt`` contains curation notes for the
    questions - general guidelines we followed in the curation process
    and analysis of questions that are deemed as unapplicable for being
    too source-specific, with inaccurate answer pattern or that is
    unanswerable, plus notes about changes made to the dataset; this file
    is not exhaustive anymore and of historical interest, newer dataset
    changes are in Git history.

  * ``trecnew-curated.tsv`` is a version of the ``trecnew-raw.tsv``
    with manual tweaks to improve evaluation accuracy on the dataset:
    updated answer patterns, some questions reworder and quite a few
    removed altogether.  If you want to further curate the dataset,
    edit this file (and the standard splits in the root directory).

Origin and Licencing
--------------------

These sets were produced by NIST, a US Government institution, which
makes them public domain.  Ellen M. Voorhees of NIST kindly confirmed:

	> > The questions and answer patterns are freely download-able
	> > from the TREC web site. ...
	> ... Could you please clarify what of what copyright status
	> they are and what their licence is?
	They are in the public domain, though, of course, we would
	appreciate attribution.

The answer PCRE patterns have been originally contributed to the NIST
TREC QA track as a courtesy of Ken Litkowski of CL Research.
